So I guess you picked up her looking at peace and Advent today, right? And that is where our passage is going to be focusing on.
and this passage may not have first as you hear it read aloud seem like it's gonna gear itself towards peace and advent but it really does.
And so today, our gospel passage will be coming from Matthew, the third chapter, verses 1 through 12. So I invite you to open up your Bibles or your Bible.
Or Bible apps that you would like to follow along. Or you can look at the words as they're presented on the screen above me. But I invite you to stand as you're able and body or spirit.
We are in honor of the reading of the gospel passage.
In those days, John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness of Judea, proclaiming, Repent!
For the kingdom of heaven has come near,
And this is the one of the prophet Isaiah spoke when he said,
The voice of the one crying out in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight.
Now John wore clothing of Campbell's hair with a leather belt around his waist.
and its food was locusts and wild honey.
Then Jerusalem, and all Judea, and all the region around the Jordan were going out to him, and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for his baptism, he said to them,
You brew to vipers.
Who warned you to flee from the coming wrath?
Therefore bear fruit worthy of repentance, and do not presume to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our ancestor, for I tell you, God is able from these things
These stones to raise up children to Abraham. Amen.
For even now the axe is lying at the root of the trees. therefore every tree that does not bear good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.
I baptize you with water for repentance.
But the one who is coming after me is more powerful than I, and I am not worthy to carry his sandals. He'll baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.
His winning fork
It's in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and will gather his wheat into the granny.
But the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
You may be seated.
So we all have things that we dread doing in life. We all have conversations that we're not looking forward to having.
Task, task,
That we're not looking for to do
places to go that we don't look forward to going to.
And some of these things you wouldn't think would happen
In the advent
Christmas season, right? because everything is joyful and happy, and everything we do is just so great, right?
it's kind of like the who's of whoville before the grinch comes in everybody's just happy for the holidays.
but this past weekend i found myself doing something that i just loathe okay and it was connected to the holiday season.
and i try to avoid this task and this place all throughout the year but always find myself going to this place and this time of year.
Because you just can't avoid it. Sometimes it has things that you just must go and get, and that is forgiveness.
Walmart
walmart walmart the walmart and madison in particular okay.
it is always crowded no matter what okay always packed and this time of the year it is multiplied.
but this weekend i found myself with my wife going to walmart because we had to get a few things that involved grocery items potentially.
and of course we had to go find like a tacky sweater or something for a christmas party and we wanted to go to one place that can get it all and we're like it's gonna be walmart isn't it in the link is it?
Lincoln's going to be Walmart. And so we went to the Walmart, and guess what?
it was packed on a saturday there is tons of people lots of steamy and bright lights and carts and people running around i'm like this is.
Oh, this is not my happy place. But we went, we conquered, we
And we left, right?
So we have things in our lives that we dread, and we don't think is going to be very fun. And sometimes we try to,
Stahl
you not go or go and have this conversation hoping magically it will get fixed without us having to do these difficult things.
But you know what? Afterwards, when you get it over,
you kind of have this relief or.
That's done. It's been taken seriously. That's done. That's done. That's
Care of.
And so here in Advent, we talk about hope.
Peace, joy, and love, all beautiful things, okay?
But today's text
doesn't feel peaceful at all, does it?
this john the baptist text with him and his leather belt wearing camel's hair talking about him you know eating locusts and wild honey.
But then, you know, we have this time where it's not just like a perfect Hallmark Christmas movie, but yet this wild,
Uncomfortable
Profit is actually announcing something.
That can lead and is connected to
Peace.
To peace.
because.
The peace of Christ is not found in avoidance of uncomfortable things.
but the peace of christ can be found after the truth is told.
repentance is reimbraced and grace is allowed to do its healing work in our lives.
So John the Baptist,
He is one of the last, or can be considered the last prophet of the Old Testament time, connecting us to the New Testament time. He's often viewed as this
It's this bridge between the old world and a new message, right?
And the message is simple. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven has come.
Near.
A simple message.
And this is not to make us feel guilty about what we have done, because when you hear the word repentance, there's a lot of shame that comes with this.
But it's more for preparation.
Preparation.
Which in the season of Advent we are preparing
Anticipating for the birth of Christ.
and so just like how christmas in this time of year is full of decorating and shopping list and task to do okay.
John also tells us that we need to be doing things to prepare ourselves spiritually.
Spiritually.
Prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight.
Clear out the obstacles.
1. Remove what blocks God's grace from entering into your lives and open your heart. 2.
And the tool God uses for this preparation
Is repentance, repentance.
Repentance actually does lead to peace.
When we do repent, we can name our mistakes.
Instead of finding judgment or rejection, we can find grace. And this finding grace is the heartbeat of our life.
Of the gospel.
Grace is the heartbeat of the gospel.
And so, as I said, when we hear the word repentance, we kind of get scared, we kind of want to avoid it.
I like those tasks we like to avoid and those conversations we like to avoid.
Because it's like emitting your weakness and failure and sin in your life.
But God doesn't use repentance as a punishment.
He uses it as
Freedom.
Freedom from those things in your life.
That holds you back
From God.
Scripture says in 1 John 1:9, it says, "If we confess our sins, he who is faithful and just will forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all evil."
from all unrighteousness.
So this is something that we need to be focusing on.
And how it's connected to Advent in today's message of peace because Jesus is the prince of
Of peace.
and the prince of peace cannot reign in our hearts
When it's crammed full of this shame, guilt, secretness, things that we refuse to accept,
When we repent,
We leave room for this healing grace that Jesus can offer us.
you know today i've got a task that i'm not looking forward to but that's kind of cleaning up my room it doesn't get better when you get older okay kids when you when you get a room as an adult.
it kind of just collects things and hides things and then eventually you're like i've got to clean this up because i can't even be.
comfortable in my own bedroom so one of my task and goals today is for me to clean off my nightstand from all the clutter to get all the clothes put up and out of the way the floor swept up the
the bed made and that way I can finally have some peace in my
bedroom okay so looking at everything like oh my gosh this has got to get done today so cleaning a room
has a connection though to when you kind of clean out your life right and clean out your heart because when you do that then you have more room for grace
You have this peace that can come about you.
And you know, in this passage, John says something bold to these religious leaders, these Pharisees and Sadducees,
He says,
bear free worthy of repentance in other words just don't say you're sorry but but be willing to be changed
God wants us to
do more than forgive us. he also wants to transform us.
and peace is not the absence of conflict but peace is the presence of Christ reigning in our transformed
Heart.
And that transformation is connected to the repentance that John talks about.
So when we look at the
Peace in December and how
the all the good things that are going on we look around we see a lot of warm lights being put out and christmas lights and beautiful music being played in.
and in these wonderful, you know, quiet, cold, dark nights. but the bible imagined peace as.
different things in this in this season.
The Bible imagines peace as forgiveness.
Restored relationships,
A clear conscience, a transformed life,
and confidence that God is not holding anything against.
Us.
That is what peace,
And the Bible means.
Not just all the beautiful things that we have in our world today that can bring us peace, but God's peace.
And that kind of peace is only possible when we take John the Baptist's call seriously.
To repent and turn towards God.
So today, are you running for peace?
Are you avoiding the hard conversations that you must have with God?
Or are you holding on to something that you know you need to release and confess?
Are you afraid that if you come clean, God would reject you?
But John the Baptist
It gives us a hard message to reflect upon, but Jesus gives us a gracious one because he came and
So you could have peace.
The Prince of Peace.
Came to give us real peace.
Not the one that avoids, but the one that gives forgiveness.
So, because of Jesus, we can confess.
Because of Jesus, we can be forgiven.
Because of Jesus, we can be restored.
And because of Jesus, we know we can have faith.
Peace.